Because my unpaper is in the format of a grant, and specifically one directed at public historians, I did not feel like there was enough room to talk about the links between my unpaper and the classwork. So I am trying to do that here, much more explicitly. History has an already existant focus on materiality in a way that literature tends to lack. However, material culture is still primarily the realm of archaeology, museum studies, and public history. But rarely have we examined a specific type of material culture in such detail as book historians do, at least in this program. I am expecting that this event will be implicit in teaching the skills we discussed in this class, rather than explicit. However, I do see it as an exercise in encountering the materiality of printing, given that the interface is practically invisible to us in daily life, as is the intention of publishers. I'd like to get the other students thinking about the importance of interface and medium, as Amaranth Borsuk discusses at length in her book. How does the process of printing affect what is printed, both in regards to interface and things like job printing as Gitelman wrote on? Additionally, talking about some of the labor conditions in the press, whether looking at Ben Franklin's experience or the Victoria press, and then having that physical experience themselves, if a lot less intense, will hopefully make students more aware of the work that goes into the materials they use, both in everyday life and at work. 

Since my cohort is already familiar with Marshall McLuhan, I am hoping that they will be able to drive a conversation about medium without it being extremely explicitly stated. McLuhan was a bit of a spector over the entire semester, and since he shaped much of the conversation we had in class, I think its important that his ideas pervade the event, even if his name is never mentioned. As much as I wish that this could be a much more fully fleshed out workshop, with the ability to assign readings ahead of time and have full discussions of the topics, that is not possible. Still, I tried to link what we talked about in class, especially McLuhan and Borsuk, to the event. Hopefully, it will have an impact on those who attend, and they will walk away from the event knowing that this incredible resource exists and is at their disposal *and* have an expanded understanding of what materiality means.

Additional text cited: "Ancient Roman hairdressing: on (hair)pins and needles" by Janet Stephens (https://www.journalofromanarch.com/samples/v21.110_adj.pdf)